I'm going to show you today how to curl short
hair using a curling iron.
It's one of the biggest trends right now is
kind of a shorter style with a little bit
more wave or texture.
We do see styles moving from being so straight
and so sleek, as far as short hair is concerned,
moving into a more tousled or curled way.
With my model today, in her haircut she actually
has lots of layers.
So I'm going to style it kind of a softer,
more wave.
And one thing we notice a lot in these styles
is it is smoother from the root, kind of,
down.
We don't start see the waves come till kind
of midway down, which is great for short hair
because it's always hard to curl the top and
not look like it's too curled.
So what we're going to do, because she has
these layers, is I'm going to section her
hair off into two sections.
If you had a haircut that was more one length,
then you would just take big sections straight
out to the side.
So you would do the same thing I'm about to
do to this first section, only you would do
it to the whole section.
So I'm just going to take a top section here.
The top of her ear is about right here, so
it's a pretty big section.
And I'm going to curl them moving straight
out from the head.
I think a lot of times with curls, our instinct
is to always curl under.
So we're doing the exact opposite.
We're keeping it straight out, and then we're
going to curl it.
There's a couple of different techniques you
could do.
For her hair, what I'd really like to do is
a tonging technique.
So what you're going to do is you're going
to take your curling iron, and you're going
to point it straight down.
And you are just going to wrap the hair around
your curling iron, holding the end in your
hand.
Hold it a couple of seconds, and then release
it.
And you get just a very soft little curl.
I'll show you that again.
Again, take a pretty long section.
Pull it straight out from the head.
Point your curling iron down, and then wrap.
This is such a great technique for shorter
hair, because you have to do so many little
sections, and it's a little bit easier, I
think, to curl your hair, tonging it, with
the short hair.
So I'm going to continue doing that all the
way around to probably the middle of the back
of the head.
All the sections that I've done so far have
been curled away from her face, and I'll continue
to do the same thing on the other side.